# Question yourself

Since you are reading this manuscript, congratulations, you have made the first step! Hang on, brace yourself, there will be a million more steps going forward.

Before you start, question yourself.

Why do you want to start a (successful) open source project?

Is it because of the associated fame?

Is it because you can impact millions of people's life?

Is it because you can speak at conferences across the world?

Is it because of the work-from-home-work-alone lifestyle?

Is it because so you can work at a top level open source project at big tech?

Is it because of the pride, to be looked upon by your fellows?

If any of the above is one of your motivations, then let's debunk them one by one. None of the above necessarily requires being an open source founder. In fact, there are better ways to achieve those other than being an open source founder.

Fame. If you want to be famous like Linus Torvalds, think twice. He is actually not that famous. Ask any developers, what is Linus the Linux founder's last name? People probably cannot answer without Googling. And by the way, Linux is little known outside of the tech community. If you want to get famous, become a content creator! I bet more people know about Linus Sebastian than Linus Torvalds. (sorry LTT, I liked your channel a lot; it's just a convenient coincidence)

Impact. If you want the software you develop to impact people's life, go work for a tech giant or a startup. They have the marketing muscle to promote the software to millions of people, so you have a much higher chance of making a meaningful impact working on proprietary software.

Speaking at conferences. If you want to speak at conferences while travelling around the world having your full accomodation and travel expenses paid, then just go on and become a professor. Once you get tenured, you will get this previledge. Or become the Public Relations spokesperson at a conglomerate, that'd even be better. Because you also get other perks instead of the administrative burden being a professor.

Lifestyle. Working from home, solely alone in a remote island sounds outlandish in the past, but no longer is the case in 2021. As more and more tech companies are switching to remote-first or remote-only, it is perfectly possible to make a living within the comfort of your home.

Big Tech. If you want to work on a top level open source project at Big Tech, the correct career path is actually to get into an entry-level position there then change roles until you land onto one of the project teams. The truth is though, open source development activities constitutes less than 1% of the corporate activities at Big Tech, so in any case you got to have some luck to be able to work on .NET or Chromium.

Pride. First, pride is self-entitled. Nobody cares about your achievement of being an influential figure in the open source community, unless you also make a ton of money. Period. Do not pride yourself on being an open source founder.

## That's too harsh, what should I be asking for instead?

If you want to found an open source project, you should say yes to *all* of the following:

1. I am a craftsman, I want to design meticulous and sophisticated software that solves real problems

1. I want to contribute my small piece to the technology industry, and leave my legacy for posterity

1. I want to connect with people across the world

1. After a full day's work, I still want to code until midnight when I get home

1. I am so passionate in creating software that I will never burn out or run out of ideas

1. I enjoy staying up late at night, and spending weekends on a laptop or in front of a desktop

1. I want to give away my work for free, and not asking for even a thank-you

1. I want to *occasionally* being thanked for my dedication

1. I am okay with being offended and can deal with them peacefully

1. I can live with the fact that my parents, spouse and friends can never grasp my achievement nor understand my passion

As you can see, they are not all so positive, but you still have to answer yes to *all* of the above, otherwise you will find yourself regretting halfway the journey.