# Aspire

You have successfully questioned yourself and accepted the pitfalls now. Next, we are going to look for aspirations from successful open source founders.

Below is a list of influential figures in open source. The following list is not exhaustive, and it will never be. It just serves as a teaser for you to study the history of software:

1. Linus Torvalds (Linux)
1. Richard Stallman (GNU)
1. Mark Shuttleworth (Ubuntu)
1. Matt Mullenweg (WordPress)
1. Taylor Otwell (Laravel)
1. Isaac Schlueter (NPM)
1. Guido van Rossum (Python)
1. Rasmus Lerdorf (PHP)
1. Evan You (Vue.js)

Find a figure you admire and study his story. Learn his strategy. Though you will find out that none of them actually planned their success. 

The technology scene is like a force of nature, where some projects are chosen by millions of programmers as the go-to choice for solving a particular problem.

It is unpredictable, chaotic and ever changing. Some projects blow up at the beginning, while others enjoyed a slow but steady growth.

We basically have to accept the fact that success is an accident, a side effect of someone pursuing *something else*; where in the process, people are dragged along and the mass of followers grow.

Founding a successful open source project should never be the goal. Instead, it should be something bigger and further. May be you wanted to make a game but ended up creating a game engine. May be you wanted to develop a website but ended up creating a web framework. May be you wanted to express an algorithm but ended up creating a language.

The real challenge is, you have to discover what moves you, what bugs you and what captivates you. You have to find something high up in the sky as your north star.

That way, in every stage of the process, you will never be confused.