# Be pessimistic

Welcome to step 3 of 'before you start'. Yes, please really take your time to complete the previous 2 sections before proceeding. It could take years before you really get started. May be you always wanted to start an open source project but never got the occasion.

Now, let's admit we are all humans. We all live in a more or less chaotic society, churning ourselves through life. Why we even bother to do open source?

We are busy, we need money, we need time. The odds of success are so low and beyond our control, so why even try? It's easier to dream but not trying than to give up at some point. It will be gruesome, painful and meaningless.

Most people around you, your family, colleagues and friends will have no idea what is open source software. Even if you made a huge success, they will still not be able to appreciate the achievement. It's not like open source developers will be featured on Forbes.

Your fellow programmers who understand the importance of open source software will actually question you, criticizes you and think you are not good enough to assume leadership of an important piece of software.

People simply don't care. They don't care how important this project is to you. They don't care how much effort and sleepless nights you have sunk in. They don't care even if your software solves an important problem, as long as it is not *their* problem.

Finally, something about yourself. You are not good enough. You are not as good in programming as you think you are. You are not a good API designer. You do not know about the language you are using enough. You suck at architecture design.

Even if you survived an initial release, your software will be buggy. People try, complain and go away. People will not voluntarily spread your great work, so your project's popularity only rises slowly. Slower than you want it to be. You will find yourself being less productive over time and progress just stagnates.

You are not strong enough to go through all of that.

That's right, you will want to give up. The project will drag you down, preventing you from enjoying your life beyond computing.

Are you prepared?